# Flamenco Worker changelog

This file logs the changes that are actually interesting to users (new features,
changed functionality, fixed bugs).

## Version 2.3 (in development)

- Changed how progressive rendering works. Nonuniform tasks are now supported. This requires
  Flamenco Server 2.2 or newer. Progressive render jobs generated by older versions of Flamenco
  Server are no longer supported.


## Version 2.2.1 (2019-01-14)

- Fixed bug where an uncaught exception could make the Worker stop requesting tasks or go into an
  infinite loop.


## Version 2.2 (2019-01-11)

- Upgraded Python from 3.5 to 3.7
- Always log the version of Flamenco Worker.
- Requires Flamenco Manager 2.2 or newer.
- Include missing merge-exr.blend, required for progressive rendering, in the distribution bundle.
- Include `exr-merge` task type in default configuration, which is required for progressive
  rendering.
- Prevent outgoing queue saturation by not fetching a new task when the queue is too large.
- When aborting a subprocess, try to terminate it before killing it.
- Changed some of the configuration defaults to more sensible values (mostly queueing up larger
  amounts of logs before pushing to Flamenco Manager).
- Fixed a memory leak in the ask update queue.
- Added a new `log_a_lot` command and task type `debug` to aid in debugging.
- Fixed bug where task updates would be sent in an infinite loop when the Manager didn't
  know the task, blocking all other task updates.
- Added a `pre_task_check` section to the configuration file, which can contain `write.N` and
  `read.N` keys (where `N` can be anything to make the keys unique). Every value is a path to be
  checked for writability or readability. Note that write checks are lossy, and bytes are appended
  to any existing file used to check writability. When such a check fails, the Worker will go to
  status `error` and sleep for 10 minutes before trying again.
- Subprocess commands now write the spawned process PID in a text file, and refuse to run if there
  already is such a file with an alive PID.
- Log lines produced by subprocesses are now prefixed with 'PID=nnn'.
- Moved from pip-installing requirements.txt to Pipenv.
- Added a new command `create_video` which uses FFmpeg to create a video after rendering an image
  sequence. It's up to Flamenco Server to include (or not) this command in a render job.
- Explicitly return tasks to the Manager queue when stopping them (that is, when going asleep or
  shutting down). Requires Flamenco Manager 2.2 or newer.
- Added support for commands used in the blender-video-chunks job type:
    - blender_render_audio
    - concat_videos
    - create_video
    - move_with_counter
    - mux_audio
- Added support for overriding Blender RNA properties for render commands.
- Added a new command `create_python_file` for creating RNA override files.


## Version 2.1.0 (2018-01-04)

- Python 3.5.4 is required as minimum Python version.
- Worker can now be told to go to sleep by the Manager. In that case task execution
  stops (because /may-i-run/{task-id} returns 'no') and new tasks are no longer given.
  This is done via a request to change its internal state. This state change must be
  acknowleged by the Worker before new tasks will be given.
- Fixed sending task status updates after the task may no longer be run.
- Worker goes to sleep when receiving signal USR1 and wakes up after signal USR2.
  This is only supported on POSIX platforms that have those signals.
- Worker can be told to shut down by the Manager. The environment (for example systemd
  on Linux) is responsible for restarting Flamenco Worker after such a shutdown.
- Added `--version` CLI option to show the version of Flamenco Worker and quit.
- Added `--single` or `-1` CLI option to shut down the Worker after executing a single task.
- Added `--test` or `-t` CLI option to start in testing mode. See Flamenco documentation
  for more details. Requires Flamenco Manager 2.1.0+.
- Added support for passing Python scripts to Blender in task definitions.
- When a blend file does not exist when a render command starts, waits 5 seconds and test
  again. This allows for some slight network lag when the job storage resides on a networked
  file system.


## Version 2.0.8 (released 2017-09-07)

- Fixed parsing of `--config` CLI param on Python 3.5
- Added `--debug` CLI parameter to easily enable debug logging without having
  to edit `flamenco-worker.cfg`.
- Only fail UPnP/SSDP discovery when it fails to send on both IPv4 and IPv6.
- Creating distribution files using [PyInstaller](http://www.pyinstaller.org/).
- Fixed UPnP/SSDP discovery issues on Windows.


## Version 2.0.7 (released 2017-07-04)

- Use UPnP/SSDP to automatically find Manager when manager_url is empty.
  This is now also the new default, since we can't provide a sane default URL anyway.
  Requires Flamenco Manager 2.0.13 or newer.
- Fixed Windows incompatibilities.


## Version 2.0.6 (released 2017-06-23)

- Fixed incompatibility with attrs version 17.1+.
- Added `--reregister` CLI option to re-register this worker at its Manager.
  WARNING: this can cause duplicate worker information in the Manager's database.


## Version 2.0.5 (released 2017-05-09)

- Vacuum SQLite database at startup.
- Removed `--factory-startup` from the default Blender command. This can be passed
  to the Worker using the {blender} variable definition instead.


## Version 2.0.4 (released 2017-05-09)

- Fixed bug in writing ~/.flamenco-worker.cfg


## Version 2.0.3 (released 2017-04-07)

- Made the `flamenco-worker.cfg` file mandatory, as this makes debugging configuration
  issues easier. When the file does not exist, the absolute path of its expected
  location is logged.


## Version 2.0.2 (released 2017-04-07)

- Added support for task types. Workers only get tasks of the types they support.
  This also adds signing on at every start, to send the current hostname as nickname,
  and the configured list of task types, to the Manager. Requires Manager version
  2.0.4 or newer.


## Version 2.0.1 (released 2017-03-31)

- Registers rendered and copied files with the Manager, so that they can be
  shown as "latest render".


## Version 2.0 (released 2017-03-29)

- First release of Pillar-based Flamenco, including this Worker.
